For loops are great.
We use them a ton.
I'll show you a few more situations where we use them with strings where we use them with arrays but
first I want to talk about something that's not so great.
And this is true of many types of loops across all languages.
You can write infinite loops in an infinite loop is something you absolutely want to avoid.
Do not run this code.
It's not going to break your computer it's not going to set it on fire or crash anything but your window
that you run it in on your browser is going to be very unhappy and I might show you what happens.
I definitely have written many infinite loops accidentally and I'll talk about how that happens but
the idea behind an infinite loop is that you write a loop where the ending condition is never met.
So the second part of your for loop in this case would always be true.
So here's an example I'm saying start at twenty add one to each time and run this loop while I is greater
than or equal to zero.
It's always going to be greater than or equal to zero because I'm always adding to AI and it starts
at 20 so it will run on and on and on and on and on and tell either javascript freaks out or the browser
freaks out you'll see what happens.
I guess I'll show it to you.
Committed to it at this point.
So you want to be careful about this when you're writing a for loop and especially when you write while
loops which will cover next.
So let's try and create one an infinite loop.
Let's count was great and I that starts at 1 and I'm going to add two to AI each time so maybe I'm trying
to count to 4 6 8 and so on.
Up until I hit 20 so my condition a poorly written condition would be run this when I is not equal to
20 but there's a problem here.
I'm starting AI at 1 I'm adding 2 to it each time so we'll get 3 and then we'll get well we'll get one
then 3 then 5 then 7 we'll never have twenty so it's always going to be not equal to 20 we'll never
hit twenty.
We're counting on odd numbers because we start at 1.
So we blow right past it.
Gosh.
Here we go.
When I run it I'm being dramatic.
It's not that bad you can see what's happening here.
We've already hit two thousand nine hundred three and did my browser stop.
Yeah.
OK.
Now it's lagging I can't scroll I can't click.
It's getting on jittery.
It's just going to keep going and then eventually Chrome is going to ask me if I want to kill the process.
You might have seen that before.
If you're trying to open something intensive in the browser or page it's being weird a little window
pops up and says You want to kill or wait on this web page I'll click kill one that eventually pops
up and I'll be back in a bit.
OK.
So eventually I killed it.
My computer is now very angry.
You can hear the fans going most likely through the microphone.
It got very warm because it's trying to do all these computations and there's no end in sight.
It just keeps going and going and going and going and that's not good behavior.
So infinite loops or something we want to avoid.
So in general when you're doing a for loop there's a couple of things to look out for before you ever
run the code.
The first is just pay attention and make sure you're going in the right direction.
This is a simple one but if you're trying to count backwards from 200 or from 100 let I equals 100 and
we'll decrement by 1.
We want this code to run when i is greater than or equal to zero.
But often at least sometimes I do this.
I'm so used to doing I less than or equal to something that that's what I'll go with.
And that causes an infinite loop.
I usually catch myself but it's just something to pay attention to make sure that if you're going backwards
or going forwards whichever direction you're going that your condition here is appropriate.
And the other piece of advice that I have is that I would pretty much never use equality or non equality
in a for loop if you're working with numbers.
It's much better to do greater than or less than because then we would avoid a situation like this if
I did want to count from three to five to seven.
And I wanted to stop as soon as we get past 20.
It would just be better if I said while I is less than or equal to 20 because even if we don't hit 20
exactly we're starting at 1:00 we add two we'll end up with 19 and then we get to 21.
We skipped over 20 but the loop will still stop because this won't be true anymore.
So just two things.
Make sure you're going in the right direction your logic makes sense here and generally try to avoid
equality and non equality there.
I prefer to use greater than and less than when I can.
So I'm going to add a note here.
Don't run this.
This will cause an infinite loop.
I'll get rid of that one.
You probably will encounter an infinite loop or two but at this point hopefully you'll be able to identify
what's going on.
I'll be very clear when your browser just starts freaking out at you and getting hot and jittery and
laggy it happens.
It's nothing to be ashamed of but it's definitely something you want to be on the lookout for and try
and prevent if you can.